<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>

<h1>Data Structure of a Course (<gale:object name="glossary_cam" />)</h1>

<p>
The CAM is specified in an XML based format and it is wrapped in a common part (a "header"),
shared between different models (<gale:a href="gat_dm"><gale:object name="glossary_dm" /></gale:a>,
<gale:a href="gat_crt"><gale:object name="glossary_prt" /></gale:a> and CAM).
The following XML code outlines the common structure of GRAPPLE authoring tool models,
illustrated with a CAM.
Each model has a header part, where metadata of the model is located.
Metadata include title, description, creation and update time, author, authorisation,
and unique UUID of the model:
<pre>
&lt;model&gt;  &lt;header&gt;
    &lt;modeluuid&gt;660e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000&lt;/modeluuid&gt;       //the modelUuid is a unique identifier for the model.    &lt;modeltype&gt;CAM&lt;/modeltype&gt;       //Types can be DM, CRT, CAM or their VR and Simulation equivalent    &lt;authoruuid&gt;660e8400-e29b- a716-41d4-446655440000&lt;/authoruuid&gt;       // the author UUID is the unique identifier of the author, who created the model    &lt;authorisation&gt;readwrite&lt;/authorisation&gt;       // authorisation for all other author; the original author always has all permissions.       //permissions can be none (no access by other authors) read (read-only access) and       //readwrite (read and write access)    &lt;creationtime&gt;1242904243000&lt;/creationtime&gt; //the timestamp of creation of the model    &lt;updatetime&gt;1242904243000&lt;/updatetime&gt; //the timestamp the model was last updated    &lt;title&gt;sun-example-cam&lt;/title&gt; //the title of the model    &lt;description&gt;CAM for the Solar System example&lt;/description&gt; //the description of the model  &lt;/header&gt;  &lt;body&gt; //the body contains the actual content of the model    &lt;cam&gt; //depending on the model there will be a <gale:object name="glossary_dm" />, CAM or CRT tag to indicate the model type
          //content of the model (in this case cam) see below for more details
    &lt;/cam&gt;  &lt;/body&gt;&lt;/model&gt;
</pre>
Below we explain the CAM language via an example. We see this type of CAM output as XML descriptions of
groups of concepts and named pedagogical relations between them.
For example, if a single concept A is a prerequisite for a single concept B, the corresponding CAM could be:
<pre>&lt;model&gt;  &lt;header&gt; .. &lt;/header&gt;  &lt;body&gt;    &lt;cam&gt;      &lt;camInternal&gt;        &lt;domainModel&gt;..&lt;/domainModel&gt;        &lt;crtModel&gt; .. &lt;/crtModel&gt;          &lt;crt&gt;	    &lt;uuid&gt;cf5de7f5-12b5-4720-92e5-736cac59985b&lt;/uuid&gt;	    &lt;shape&gt;diamond&lt;/shape&gt;	    &lt;colour&gt;#C0C0C0&lt;/colour&gt;	    &lt;camSocket&gt; 	      &lt;uuid&gt;e9b45bd0-6013-11de-8a39-0800200c9a66&lt;/uuid&gt;	      &lt;socketId&gt;cf5de7f5-12b5-4720-92e5-zzzzzzzzz&lt;/socketId&gt;             &lt;position&gt;&lt;x&gt;100&lt;/x&gt;&lt;y&gt;250&lt;/y&gt;&lt;/position&gt;             &lt;size&gt;10&lt;/size&gt;             &lt;shape&gt;rectangle&lt;/shape&gt;				 	                              &lt;colour&gt;#006633&lt;/colour&gt;             &lt;entity&gt;&lt;dmId&gt;201-de-8a39-0800200c9a66&lt;/dmId&gt;&lt;/entity&gt;	    &lt;/camSocket&gt;	    &lt;camSocket&gt;	      &lt;caption&gt;target&lt;/caption&gt;	      &lt;uuid&gt;f539bae0-6013-11de-8a39-0800200c9a66&lt;/uuid&gt;	      &lt;socketId&gt;2b5-4720-92e5-pppppppppppp&lt;/socketId&gt;	      &lt;position&gt;&lt;x&gt;100&lt;/x&gt;&lt;y&gt;400&lt;/y&gt;&lt;/position&gt;             &lt;size&gt;10&lt;/size&gt;	      &lt;shape&gt;rectangle&lt;/shape&gt;	      &lt;colour&gt;#006633&lt;/colour&gt;	      &lt;entity&gt;&lt;dmId&gt;11de-8a39-0800200c9a66&lt;/dmId&gt;&lt;/entity&gt;	    &lt;/camSocket&gt;	 &lt;/crt&gt;      &lt;/camInternal&gt;    &lt;/cam&gt;  &lt;/body&gt;&lt;/model&gt;
</pre>As we can see the CAM consists of two parts the header and the body, the header is the common header described
above. The body part contains the information specific for the CAM model. The body part contains the following information:
<ul>
<li>The domainModels (<gale:object name="glossary_dm" />s) and crtModels (PRTs) in use.
</li>
<li>A number of crt tags, containing the instantiation of PRTs from the crtModel
with actual concepts from the domainModel.</li>
</ul>The crt tag contains the following information:
<ul>
<li>A unique identifier: the uuid
</li>
<li>The shape and color of the PRT, for displaying the PRT in the Course Editor,
this is optional, defaults will be used if the tags are omitted.
</li>
<li>An optional position element. The position of a PRT needs to be given if the PRT is not binary
(either exactly 1 or more than 2 sockets). For binary PRTs the position is calculated,
based on the position of the sockets.
</li>
<li>A number (at least 1) of camSockets.</li>
</ul>The camSockets contain the instantiation with the actual concepts, they contain the following information:
<ul>
<li>An optional caption, a name for the socket, for the authors assistance.
</li>
<li>A unique identifier, the uuid
</li>
<li>A socketId, the unique id of the specific socket in the crtModel
</li>
<li>A position, the position where the socket should be displayed in the Course Editor.
</li>
<li>An optional shape and color, the shape and color a CAM socket should have,
a default will be used if the tags are omitted.
</li>
<li>A number of entity tags.
</li>
</ul>The entity contains the instantiation with the actual concepts, they contain the following information:
<ul>
<li>Zero or one dmID, the ID (not the name) of the concept in the DM that is assigned to the entityID, with
</li>
<li>Zero or more labels for the resource of a concept and an optional location for a resource
</li>
<li>A number of relationshipType elements, where a requirement for a concept to be involved in a
certain relationship in the DM model can be expressed
(e.g., the entity should have participated in an IS-A relation)
</li>
<li>The relative position in the socket instance, if it differs from the default.
</li>
<li>The size of the entity in the socket, if it differs from the default.
</li>
<li>The shape of the entity in the CAM instance, if it differs from the default.
</li>
<li>The image of the entity in the CAM instance, if it differs from the default.
</li>
<li>The color of the entity in the CAM instance, if it differs from the default.
</li>
</ul>The description of the subject domain and behavior semantics of the PRT called ‘prerequisite’ needs to be separately imported from the DM and CRT repositories.
These descriptions are then included in the domainModel and crtModel parts.
</p>
<p>
More technical details can be found in <a href="http://grapple-project.org/deliverables">GRAPPLE Deliverable 3.3c</a>.
</p>
</body>
</html>
