<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>The AHA! Configuration File</h2>

<p>Not everything that is configurable in AHA! can be controlled
through the <gale:a href="firstconfig">configuration
menu</gale:a> for the server manager. In the directory "WEB-INF" (a standard name
for the Tomcat server) there are two configuration files: web.xml and
ahaconfig.xml. The web.xml file is created automatically through the
initial configuration process and should never be changed. It contains a
pointer to the ahaconfig.xml file which has all AHA!-specific
parameters. Although it is probably best to leave all parameters as they
are, there may be reasons to change the following parameters:</p>
<ul>
	<li>"mysqlhost": This is set to "localhost" by default. It can be
	changed to separate the machine running the mySQL database from the
	machine running Tomcat and the AHA! servlets. Spreading the load may
	improve performance. (We have not tried this, as our server
	(aha.win.tue.nl) with dual Athlon MP2000+ is still fast enough for our
	applications, including the on-line AHA! tutorial.)</li>
	<li>"mysqldatabase": This is the name of the mySQL database,
	optionally created during the initial AHA! configuration.</li>
	<li>"mysqlpassword": This is the password for the mySQL database,
	optionally created during the initial AHA! configuration. Please note
	that this password is stored as cleartext and therefore the WEB-INF
	directory or ahaconfig.xml file should be kept secure!</li>
	<li>"XMLROOT": This is the directory used to store the XML files
	when no mySQL database is used. As this directory includes a part for
	the user model files it may grow quite large. Therefore it may become
	necessary to move this directory to a different disk. (This should also
	help performance.)</li>
</ul>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
