<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>Defining Layout of the Application</h2>
<p>Most adaptive applications do not only show pages with links, but
have some additional structures, like the "menu" you see on the left in
this tutorial. Each AHA! application defines its own look and feel. This
consists of a definition of <em>layout</em>, consisting of html frames
and which information goes into which frame, and a specification of
concept presentation.</p>
<p>All this is specified with the help of the following files:</p>
<ul>
	<li>Layoutconfig.xml</li>
	<li>ConceptTypeConfig.xml</li>
	<li>header.xhtml (or/and) footer.xhtml (OPTIONAL)</li>
</ul>
<p>You can create your own definitions for layout or use the
existing definitions provided with the system. To use the ones provided
with system, copy the above given files from <em>/aha/tutorial</em> to <em>/aha/example</em>
and change every occurence of the word 'tutorial' with 'example'.</p>
<p>For further reference see the corresponding page of the tutorial:
<gale:a href="layout">The Layout of an AHA!
Application</gale:a>.</p>
<p>Note: We will also need a login page and a registration page for
our application. We can also copy these from the directory <em>/aha/tutorial</em>
and modify them for our use (changing at least every occurence of
"tutorial" into "example").</p>
<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
