<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>AHA! for End-Users</h2>

<p>As an end-user there are only a few things you have to know about
the AHA! system. How the adaptation works in an application largely
depends on the <gale:object name="adaptationrule" type="text/aha" /> <gale:a
	href="rules">rules</gale:a> an author creates, so we concentrate here
on aspects that are application independent.</p>

<ul>
	<li>In order for AHA! to perform adaptation each user must be
	known through a unique <em>identity</em>, which is chosen in the
	registration form. Anonymous users are assigned a unique randomly
	chosen identity. That identity is remembered by the browser through the
	"cookie" mechanism. You can restart an anonymous session only from the
	same machine using the same browser. Non-anonymous (normal) users have
	a <em>password</em> to prevent unauthorized use of their login. An
	application may offer a form (called "password" in this tutorial) to
	let you change the password.</li>
	<li>One AHA! server can contain several applications. You can
	reuse your identity when you go from one application to another. You
	can also return to the first application or go back and forth. However,
	you should not try to use two applications simultaneously from
	different browsers or browser windows, because AHA! maintains only one
	session per user at a time. Using multiple applications simultaneously
	can lead to unexpected results (like the name of one application being
	displayed in the other application, or the wrong background image on
	pages).</li>
	<li>AHA! registers every page access (every click on a link
	anchor). A set of <gale:object name="adaptationrule" /> <gale:a
		href="rules">rules</gale:a> (written by the author, possibly through
	authoring tools) determines how a <gale:a href="usermodel">user model</gale:a>
	is updated. This user model consists of <em>concepts</em> with <em>attributes</em>.
	There may (or may not) be forms in the application that let you inspect
	and change certain attributes of certain concepts. This tutorial has a
	standard form ("knowledge of tutorial") that lets you change the
	knowledge value of certain concepts. (The author determines which
	concepts have a user-changeable knowledge value.)</li>
	<li>Another set of author-defined rules determines the status of
	(links to) concepts and associates a presentation style for links to
	the concepts. Although the rules can be completely arbitrary, resulting
	in a plethora of link presentations, it is more typical that some
	simple rules are used that associate the link presentation with the <em>suitability</em>
	of the link destination. This is also what we did in this tutorial. The
	presentation (as used here) can be:
	<ul>
		<li>GOOD: the link points to a suitable page you have not visited
		before. The standard color for such link anchors is blue.</li>
		<li>NEUTRAL: the link points to a suitable page you have visited
		before. The standard color for such link anchors is purple.</li>
		<li>BAD: the link points to an unsuitable page. Whether or not
		you visited this page before the standard color for such link anchors
		is (almost) black.</li>
	</ul>
	In addition to link colors the presentation of links may also include
	icons. In this tutorial the navigation menu shows colored bullets
	(green, white or red), whereas in the text pages it does not. In the <gale:a
		href="advanced">advanced</gale:a> authoring section we explain how
	this works. <br />
	An application may offer a form through which you can change the link
	color scheme. (This tutorial offers such a form: "link colors").<br />
	Each time you visit a page the suitability of all the links on that
	page is determined. As a result the set of links you see may differ
	each time.</li>
	<li><gale:a href="pages">Pages</gale:a> may also contain rules (or
	conditions) to determine the suitability of <gale:a href="fragments">fragments</gale:a>
	(like sentences or paragraphs). Each time you visit a page the
	suitability of each fragment is determined. As a result the information
	you see on the page may differ each time.</li>
	<li><gale:a href="pages">Pages</gale:a> may also contain text
	fragments of which the <gale:a href="visibility">presentation</gale:a>
	can be adapted. Text can be made smaller or larger or emphasized in
	other ways.</li>
	<li>When you navigate through your browser's history (using the <em>back</em>
	and <em>forward</em> buttons) the browser may not request the pages you
	revisit from the AHA! server but may use cached versions. This results
	in pages being shown exactly as you saw them before, and not in the
	"new" form that would correspond to the most recent user model. AHA!
	attempts to instruct the browser to not used such cached versions (and
	at the time of this writing this works with Internet Explorer and
	Mozilla Firefox) but some browsers may ignore these instructions.<br />
	Also, when you open a new browser window (or tab) when following a link
	and then close it, the page you "return to" is not reloaded
	automatically. When in doubt you can use the browser's <em>reload</em>
	function to retrieve a newly adapted page, or you can navigate using a
	topic menu, as shown on the left in this tutorial.</li>
	<li>Apart from information pages an AHA! application may contain <em>forms</em>
	that let you change settings in your <gale:a href="usermodel">user model</gale:a>.
	We have included an <a href="tutorial-form.frm">example form</a> to
	show that authors can allow users to manipulate certain items in their
	user model.</li>
	<li>There can also be forms that are intended as <gale:a
		href="multiplechoice">multiple-choice tests</gale:a>, but typically
	such tests are served through the newer "test engine". We show an <a
		href="testtutorial_tutorial_C_activity.xml|DoAppletTest">example
	test</a> here <gale:if expr="${tutorial#knowledge}&lt;70">
		<gale:block>
	(but you probably need to study the tutorial further in order to answer
	the questions of the test correctly) </gale:block>
	</gale:if>.</li>
	<li>You can "log off" from an AHA! application (in the tutorial
	this is possible through a link in the page header). The "log off"
	button or link will bring you back to the login page for the
	application. When you are logged on and you do not request any page for
	a long time your session will time out and you will be logged out
	automatically. The server will forget your session and thus also which
	application you were using. As a result you will be redirected to the
	top page of the AHA! server, not to the login page for the application.
	</li>
</ul>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
