<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>Configuring AHA!</h2>

<p>We assume that you have <a href="compile" class="conditional">built</a>
the AHA! binaries, and that the TomCat server <gale:if
	expr="${ahacontext#knowledge}==0">
	<gale:block> (for
instance Sun's version JWDSP from <a
			href="http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html"
			target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html</a>)
</gale:block>
</gale:if> is installed and running, and that you have <gale:a href="ahacontext">created
a "context"</gale:a> for AHA!, with "/aha" as pathname.</p>

<p>Configuring AHA! consists of the following steps:</p>
<ol>
	<li>In the browser you go to the address <a href="/aha/Config"
		target="_blank">/aha/Config</a>. The first time you do this a page
	appears that says "Installing Configuration file". This step actually
	executes a servlet that creates the AHA! configuration files containing
	the information you entered when <gale:a href="ahacontext">creating the AHA! context</gale:a>
	for TomCat.</li>
	<li>Because the first step overwrites the initial configuration
	file, the next step only works if you configured the AHA! context to be
	reloadable. If you click on the <a href="/aha/Config" target="_blank">Configuration</a>
	link you go to "AhaConfig" page. If the context is not reloadable you
	have to restart the TomCat server first. <gale:if
		expr="${ahacontext#knowledge}==0">
		<gale:block>
	(Execute shutdown.sh and startup.sh on Linux or shutdown.bat and
	startup.bat on Windows.) </gale:block>
	</gale:if> <br />
	You can always go to the "AhaConfig" page later, using the link <a
		href="/aha/Config" target="_blank">/aha/Config</a>. You will never
	see the "Installing Configuration file" page again.</li>
	<li>When you try to go to AhaConfig page you are prompted for a
	login and password. Initially you should use "aha" as login and no
	password.</li>
	<li>The first thing to do when shown the <a
		href="../images/ahaconfig.gif" target="_blank">AhaConfig page</a>
	is to select "Manager Configuration" and then select "Change an
	existing user" from the <a href="../images/adminmenu.gif"
		target="_blank">Manager administration menu</a>, in order to
	change the "aha" <em>login</em> to a name you prefer, and to add a
	password. This is important for security reasons, because everyone who
	knows AHA! also knows that it comes with "aha" as the default manager
	without a password.</li>
	<li>Through the <a href="../images/authormenu.gif" target="_blank">Author
	menu</a> you can <a href="../images/addauthormenu.gif" target="_blank">create
	authors</a> and assign applications to authors.</li>
	<li>AHA! is now ready to be used. It contains this <a
		href="/aha/tutorial/" target="_blank">tutorial</a> as an example
	adaptive hyperdocument. It uses a set of XML files to store the concept
	information and the user profiles. To change the AHA! configuration so
	that it uses the <a href="http://www.mysql.org/" target="_blank">mySQL</a>
	you can click on the "Configure Database" link to create the database.
	Note that your mySQL database must have been configured to accept the
	mySQL login and password that you choose, <em>before</em> attempting to
	have AHA! create the database.</li>
</ol>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
