<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>The Form Editor</h2>

<p>The Form Editor enables you to create custom forms to let
end-users change values of attributes of concepts in their user model.
To this end the Form Editor offers the following features:</p>
<ul>
	<li>You can choose an application name and load the concept
	structure of that application. You can only create forms that let
	end-users modify attribute values of concepts of a single application.
	The concepts and attributes are shown in a way that resembles the
	Windows explorer.</li>
	<li>For each attribute that is marked as <em>changeable</em> in
	the concept structure a field can be created in the form. You first
	have to select the attribute of the concept, and then you can create
	the form field. A form can contain the following types of fields:
	<ul>
		<li><a href="../images/form-input.gif" target="_blank">Input</a>:
		This is used to create a textfield, intended to enter numbers or
		strings. A text field has a visible "Size", a "maxLength" to indicate
		how many characters can be typed (can be more than the "Size"), and</li>
		<li><a href="../images/form-select.gif" target="_blank">Select</a>:
		This is used to create a list of possible values of which one can be
		selected. The width of the list is determined by "Size". The
		"EnumList" field is used to enter the possible values as a
		semicolon-separated list.</li>
		<li><a href="../images/form-option.gif" target="_blank">Option</a>:
		This is used to create <em>radio buttons</em> (only one choice
		allowed) or <em>check boxes</em> (more than one choice allowed).<br />
		The "Allowed" field should have a value of 1 to create radio buttons.<br />
		The "EnumList" is the list of choices, which must be a
		semicolon-separated list.</li>
		<li><a href="../images/form-button.gif" target="_blank">Button</a>:
		This is used to create the "submit" or "reset" buttons.</li>
	</ul>
	</li>
	<li>The FormEditor shows an <a href="../images/formeditor-xml.gif"
		target="_blank">editable view of the XML file</a> it will create
	for the form. You can add text, xhtml code or move pieces around. There
	is also a <a href="../images/formeditor-preview.gif" target="_blank">"Preview"</a>
	that shows more or less what the form will look like. This Preview is
	created using a "standard" Java Swing class. Its understanding of html
	and xhtml is somewhat limited. The FormEditor assumes that a
	"header.xhtml" and "footer.xhtml" file can be included, but you can
	edit that part out.</li>
	<li>When saving the form you can select where to save it on the
	server. This will typically be somewhere in the directory tree of the
	application the form will be used in. The form editor saves <em>on
	the server</em>, not on your local PC. You can copy the form to your PC
	using the <gale:a href="amt">application management
	tool</gale:a> (AMT).</li>
</ul>

<p>We have a small <a href="tutorial-form.frm">example form</a> in
which you can see different form elements in action. Changing knowledge
values has an effect on the prerequisite relationships and may therefore
change colors of links. Changing the "interest" value has no visible
effect.</p>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
