<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>Creating a Login or Registration Page</h2>

<p>By looking at the source of the <a href="/aha/tutorial">tutorial
login page</a> and the <a href="/aha/tutorial/Registration.html">registration
page</a> you can get a good idea what these pages must contain. We briefly
summarize the attributes and fields that can be present in the login and
registration forms:</p>
<ul>
	<li><b>action</b>: Every HTML form must have an action attribute.
	It is the name of the servlet to call. It must be "/aha/Register" on
	the registration page and "/aha/Login" on the login page. For anonymous
	login and registration the action is "/aha/Anonymous".</li>
	<li><b>name</b>: This is the user's name. It can be shown anywhere
	in pages but is typically shown in <gale:a href="headerfooter">headers or footers</gale:a>,
	and it can be used in <gale:object name="adaptationrule" /> <gale:a
		href="rules">rules</gale:a>. So can all other fields that appear on
	the login and registration forms. The name field has no special
	function.</li>
	<li><b>email</b>: This is the user's email address.</li>
	<li><b>login</b>: This is the user's login id. It must be unique
	in the system. It is used when logging in again.</li>
	<li><b>password</b>: This is the user's password. It should be
	kept secret and be different from passwords used with other systems.
	AHA! currently does not store passwords in a very secure way.</li>
	<li><b>start</b>: This is the name of the first concept to be
	shown after registering or logging in. This is typically a hidden
	field. It is mandatory: AHA! does not know which page to show without
	this field.</li>
	<li><b>course</b>: This is the name of the AHA! application. (The
	name "course" was chosen for historical reasons.) The application name
	is used in conjunction with the concept structure. This is typically a
	hidden field. It is mandatory. AHA! will not work when this field is
	missing.</li>
	<li><b>directory</b>: This is the name of the directory on the
	server containing the application. In principle this can be different
	from the application's name, but not all tools are guaranteed to
	recognize applications where the name is different from the directory.
	</li>
	<li><b>title</b>: The title that can be used to refer to the
	application. The title can have several words whereas "course" can be
	only one word.</li>
	<li><b>background</b>: This is the name of an optional background
	image to be used on the application's pages (in XHTML+AHA format).</li>
	<li>Other fields may be used as well. They result in attributes of
	the "personal" concept in the <gale:a href="usermodel">user
	model</gale:a> which can be used in the <gale:a href="rules">
		<gale:object name="adaptationrule" /> rules</gale:a>.</li>
	<li>The <b>submit</b> button must have the correct name to be
	recognized by AHA!. It is "enter_button" on the registration form and</li>
	<li>For an anonymous login there is a separate form with
	"/aha/Anonymous" as its action. In the form the submit button must have
	a "name" field with value "session_button" on the registration page and
	"resume_button" on the login page. Other than that the form may contain
	the same fields as for non-anonymous logins, although there are
	typically no fields to be filled out. The only fields that cannot be
	present (or will be ignored) are "login" and "password".</li>
</ul>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
