<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>Graph Author Templates</h2>

<p>In the <gale:a href="graphauthor">graph author</gale:a> tool you
can create concepts and concept relationships of different types. The
list of available types is based on templates. All files for authoring
tools can be found in "/author/authorfiles" (set by the
"graphauthorfiles" parameter in the <gale:a href="ahaconfig">AHA! configuration file</gale:a>).
The file "templatelist.txt" lists the concept templates that exist in
the "templates" directory and the file "crtlist.txt" lists the concept
relationship templates that exist in the "crt" directory. The graph
author checks these lists and downloads the templates. A <gale:a
	href="concepttemplate">concept template</gale:a> defines a structure
of attributes, a concept type and unary concept relationships. A
template consists of two parts (files):</p>
<ul>
	<li>The <gale:a href="authorfile">file with
	suffix ".author"</gale:a> contains definitions used by the graph author to
	determine how to display the concept relationships of the given type.
	The graph author only needs the information from this file (and the
	structure created by the author) to produce its graph output file.</li>
	<li>The <gale:a href="ahafile">file with suffix
	".aha"</gale:a> contains definitions for the translation of the concept
	relationships of the given type to AHA! <gale:a href="rules">event-condition-action rules</gale:a>.
	The graph author only needs the information from this file (and the
	structure created by the author) to produce the file with concepts and
	rules that you can also create using the <gale:a href="concepteditor">concept
	editor</gale:a>.</li>
</ul>
<p>Because of the strict separation of concerns in these two files,
and the output the graph author creates from them, the ".author" files
can also be used without the ".aha" files to create concept relationship
graphs without translation to AHA!, and the ".aha" files can be used by
different authoring tools to translate concept relationship graphs to
AHA! rules without the graph author.</p>
<p>When creating new concepts in the <gale:a href="concepteditor">Concept Editor</gale:a>
a "defaultConcept.xml" file is used to create an initial set of
attributes and rules. The attributes and rules can of course be changed
in the concept editor.</p>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
