<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>The <gale:object name="glossary_gale" /> VariableModule (&lt;variable&gt; tag)</h1>

<p>
Through the <code>&lt;gale:variable&gt;</code> tag you can include <gale:object name="glossary_dm" /> and
<gale:object name="glossary_um" /> in a page.
The tag accepts two different parameters:
<ul>
<li>
When the tag is used with the attribute <code>name</code> the parameter refers to UM information.
For instance:
<pre>
    &lt;gale:variable name="#visited" /&gt;
</pre>
prints the number of visits to the current concept. (Actually, it only counts visits that happened
when the concept was suitable.)
For the current concept this is <gale:variable name="#visited" />. If you do "reload" you will see that
the number gets incremented.
</li>
<li>
When the tag is used with the attribute <code>expr</code> the result of an expression in
<gale:a href="gale_code">GALE code</gale:a>.
For instance, the following code:
<pre>    &lt;gale:variable expr="${-&gt;(parent)?type}" /&gt;
</pre>
when included in this page, prints "<gale:variable expr="${-&gt;(parent)?type}" />" (without the quotes).
So the "type" property of the parent of the current concept is "<gale:variable expr="${-&gt;(parent)?type}" />".
<br />
The following code:
<pre>&lt;gale:variable expr="gale.req().getRequestURL()" /&gt;
</pre>
results in: 
<gale:variable expr="gale.req().getRequestURL()" />
and illustrates the use of method calls in GALE code.
It shows the URL that was used in the current request. It should match what the location field of the browser
displays.
<br />
The following code:
<pre>
&lt;gale:variable expr="${-&gt;(parent)[0]?event}"/&gt;
</pre>
results in:
<gale:variable expr="${-&gt;(parent)[0]?event}"/>, which is the adaptation code of the parent concept.</li>
</ul>
</p>

</body>
</html>
