<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>The <gale:object name="glossary_gale" /> ObjectModule (&lt;object&gt; tag)</h1>

<p>
The <code>&lt;gale:object&gt;</code> tag is used to (conditionally) include a separate file.
The tag accepts different parameters resulting in different behavior:
<ol>
<li>
<code>&lt;gale:object data="filename" /&gt;</code><br />
The ObjectModule replaces the object element by the contents of the file with the given filename.
The file must contain a valid XML tree because its contents is entered into the DOM tree.
When you want to include a file just to include a text fragment you can make the file
start with <code>&lt;span&gt;</code> and end with <code>&lt;/span&gt;</code>
to turn it into a valid XML document.<br />A typical example of the use of a "data" object is to include a fixed header in all pages.
Atter replacing the object element with the contents of the file the XMLProcessor continues to
process the DOM tree, thus going through the included file and adapting its content as well.
<br />
The filename need not be a constant. By using the
<gale:a href="gale_attrvariablemodule">AttrVariableModule</gale:a> you can assign a
computed value to any attribute of any XML element.
</li>
<li>
<code>&lt;gale:object name="conceptname" /&gt;</code><br />Inclusion of an object by using <code>&lt;gale:object name="conceptname" /&gt;</code> causes GALE to
look up the concept (matching the “name” attribute of the tag) and perform
<gale:a href="gale_locatingresources">resource selection</gale:a> on that concept.
As a result the file that will be included is determined in exactly the same way as in the case of
resource selection for concepts that should present a (whole) page.When an object is included using <code>&lt;gale:object name="conceptname" /&gt;</code> this is a concept
access and thus causes <gale:object name="glossary_um" /> updates. 
Because GALE traverses the DOM tree (of the page) in depth first manner,
the part that comes after processing this tag (and request) will be adapted according to the updated UM
state whereas the part before the tag was already updated using the “old” UM state and stays that way.
It is thus possible to include the same concept as an object on the same page multiple times and have it
result in different files being included for each occurrence.
</li>
</ol>
</p>
</body>
</html>
