<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>The role of an <gale:object name="glossary_lms" /> in GRAPPLE</h1>

<p>
A Learning Management System (LMS) is used (by an institute or company) to organize
the learning process. Learners can <em>enroll</em> in courses (or be enrolled by
management). The LMS and GRAPPLE are connected for two types of functionality:
<ul>
<li>
The learner can directly access the <em>adaptive learning material</em> that is served
through an instance of <gale:a href="GALE"><gale:object name="glossary_gale" /></gale:a>.
Because both the LMS and GALE are connected to the same
<a href="http://shibboleth.internet2.edu/">Shibboleth</a> service the learner is already
identified (and authorized) when clicking through from the LMS to GALE.
</li>
<li>
The learner can perform tasks and assignments of which the results are communicated
to <gale:a href="GUMF"><gale:object name="glossary_gumf" /></gale:a>. The results can be transferred to GALE and
influence the adaptation of the learning material.
</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>
The following user events have been identified. LMSs can send data (parameters) from these events
to <gale:a href="GUMF">GUMF</gale:a> through <gale:a href="GEB"><gale:object name="glossary_geb" /></gale:a>.
The data is mapped to the <a href="http://www.imsglobal.org/profiles/">IMS LIP</a> standard
and encapsulated into <gale:a href="gumf_grapplestatement">Grapple Statements</gale:a>.
For types of events listed below we link to a list of parameters an LMS can associate with the event.
(More detailed information can be found in <a href="http://grapple-project.org/deliverables">GRAPPLE Deliverable 5.2b</a>).
<ol>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_courseaccess">Access to a course</gale:a>: it identifies the moment when the user accesses a course</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_quiz">Tests/quizzes</gale:a>: the user has completed a test
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_registration">Registration</gale:a>: the user logs on the first time to the LMS integrated with GRAPPLE
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_enrollment">Student enrollment</gale:a>: the student is enrolled in a new course
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_login">User login</gale:a>: the user logs on to the LMS integrated with GRAPPLE
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_rolechange">Role change</gale:a>: the user has changed his role (e.g. from author to teacher or from teacher to learner)
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_activitychange">Learning activity change</gale:a>: a particular learning activity has been changed
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_activityaddition">Learning activity addition</gale:a>: a particular learning activity has been added
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_activityremoval">Learning activity removal</gale:a>: a particular learning activity has been removed
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_activityaccess">Access to a learning activity</gale:a>: it identifies the moment when the user access a learning activity.
</li>
</ol>
</p>
<p>
Connecting the LMS to GRAPPLE is slightly different for each LMS, but consists of similar steps.
The GRAPPLE software repository contains "LMSconnectors" for each of the supported LMSs.
Whether an LMS sends events (see above) to GEB/GUMF or not and which data about these events is
communicated can be configured in the LMS, again in different ways depending on the LMS.
We have an explanation for five different LMSs. You need to study only the connection
and communication for the LMS you will be using. (Detailed technical information can be found
in <a href="http://grapple-project.org/deliverables">GRAPPLE Deliverable 5.2b</a> and
<a href="http://grapple-project.org/deliverables">GRAPPLE Deliverable 7.5</a>.)
The supported LMSs are:
<ul>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_moodle">Moodle</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_sakai">Sakai</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_claroline">Claroline</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_learneXact">Learn eXact</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lms_clix">Clix</gale:a>
</li>
</ul>
</p>
</body>
</html>
