<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>The <gale:object name="glossary_gale" /> MCModule (&lt;test&gt; tag)</h1>

<p>
The <code>&lt;test&gt;</code> is a special-purpose tag used to include a multiple-choice test in a page.
The ability to include a multiple-choice test in a course served by GALE is most useful when GALE is used
in a stand-alone mode. When your institute is using an <gale:object name="glossary_lms" /> you probably
want to serve multiple-choice tests from the LMS so as to do the tests in the environment the learners
are familiar with, and so as to include the grades in the LMS' gradebook.
</p>
<p>
Using the <code>&lt;test&gt;</code> tag you can include multiple choice tests that can update the 
GALE <gale:object name="glossary_um" /> based on the (correctness of the) learner's answers to the
questions. Not only can the test questions and answers be adaptive, the textual description can include
adaptive features as well, like conditionally included objects or fragments.
Here we explain the format in which these tests can be included in the page by using an example.
In the example you will see that besides the <code>&lt;test&gt;</code> tag itself there are additional
tags that are used as part of the test, like <code>&lt;question&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;answer&gt;</code>.Our example is taken from an on-line course on the subject of "hypertext", offered at the
<a href="www.tue.nl/">Eindhoven University of Technology</a>
(using <gale:a href="lms_sakai">Sakai</gale:a> as LMS but with GALE serving the adaptive learning material
and the multiple choice tests). We have not reproduced the full text of the explanations as they are
irrelevant here.
<pre>
&lt;gale:test     title="Test for the Introduction"    action="#{testintro#knowledge,value}; #{testintro#done,true};"    expr="!${testintro#done}"     ask="2"    alt="[You are not allowed to repeat this test.]"     verbose="true">  &lt;gale:question       answers="2"       right="1"&gt;    True or False:     According to the definition given in this course, this course text is a hypertext.     &lt;gale:answer correct="true"&gt;      False      &lt;gale:explain&gt;        The course text is indeed not a hypertext but a hyperdocument, because         a hypertext is the document plus the software, not the document alone.      &lt;/gale:explain&gt;    &lt;/gale:answer&gt;    &lt;gale:answer correct="false"&gt;      True      &lt;gale:explain&gt;        The course text is a hyperdocument, not a hypertext, because a         hypertext is the document plus the software, not the document alone.      &lt;/gale:explain&gt;    &lt;/gale:answer&gt;  &lt;/gale:question&gt;  &lt;gale:question       answers="4"       right="1"&gt;     What makes it difficult to offer a search facility for this course text?     &lt;gale:answer correct="true"&gt;       The course text is adaptive.       &lt;gale:explain&gt;        Indeed, because the course text is adaptive ...       &lt;/gale:explain&gt;    &lt;/gale:answer&gt;    &lt;gale:answer correct="false"&gt;       The course is only available after a login procedure.       &lt;gale:explain&gt;         The login procedure may prevent a search engine ...
        So the adaptive aspect of the course text was the correct answer.       &lt;/gale:explain&gt;    &lt;/gale:answer&gt;    &lt;gale:answer correct="false"&gt;       Some information is hidden in images.       &lt;gale:explain&gt;         In general it is a problem that information may only be available in images. However, …       &lt;/gale:explain&gt;    &lt;/gale:answer&gt;    &lt;gale:answer correct="false"&gt;      The pages are not available as a whole, but only accessible through links.       &lt;gale:explain&gt;         By following links to retrieve all the pages one by one ...       &lt;/gale:explain&gt;    &lt;/gale:answer&gt;  &lt;/gale:question&gt;  &lt;gale:result&gt;     Your score was &lt;gale:variable expr="${testintro#knowledge}.intValue()" /&gt;.     &lt;br /&gt;    &lt;gale:if expr="${testintro#knowledge}&lt;100"&gt;      &lt;gale:then&gt;        &lt;br /&gt;        &lt;br /&gt;        You are not allowed to repeat this test, but you can continue with another topic from the menu.        &lt;/gale:then&gt;      &lt;gale:else&gt;         You can now continue with another topic from the menu.       &lt;/gale:else&gt;    &lt;/gale:if&gt;  &lt;/gale:result&gt;&lt;/gale:test&gt;
</pre>
We now look at the elements of the test one by one:
<ul>
<li>
The <code>&lt;test&gt;</code> tag has 6 arguments:
<ul>
<li>
The "title" results in an automatically generated (h1) title for the test.
</li>
<li>
The "action" describes the actions GALE should perform when the learner completes the test.
The test itself results in a "value" that can be used in the action. In the example the action is
<pre>
        #{testintro#knowledge,value}; #{testintro#done,true};
</pre>
which means that the "value" of the test is assigned to the attribute "knowledge" of the concept "testintro"
and the "done" attribute of "testintro" is set to "true".
Because the <gale:a href="gale_code">GALE code</gale:a> makes use of attributes "knowledge" and "done"
you need to make sure (through a <gale:object name="glossary_prt" /> used in the
<gale:object name="glossary_cam" /> that these attributes exist). The standard "G-Quiz" PRT creates
these attributes, so you should make sure you create an instance of "G-Quiz in the CAM, and insert all
test concepts into its socket.
</li>
<li>
The "expr" is a Boolean expression in GALE code that must be true in order for the learner to be
allowed to take the test. In the example the expression is:
<pre>
	!${testintro#done}
</pre>
which means the test is only allowed if it is not yet "done". As a result the test can be taken only once
by every learner.
</li>
<li>
The value of "ask" indicates how many questions will be asked. The test may contain more questions from
which only the "ask" number of questions will be presented (chosen randomly and presented in random order).
</li>
<li>
The value of "alt" is a message shown to the learner who is not allowed to take the test. (In the example this
would be because the learner tries to repeat the test.)
</li>
<li>
The Boolean "verbose" flag indicates whether explanations will be given after the test or not.
When "verbose" is false the learner only gets an overall score. When it is true the learner will see
which questions were answered correctly and for each given answer an explanation will be shown.
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
The <code>&lt;question&gt;</code> tag has 2 arguments: the number of "answers" to show and the
number of "right" answers to show. The question may contain more answers and more correct answers.
The answers are selected randomly and presented in random order. Radio buttons will be shown when
there is only one correct answer and checkboxes when there are multiple correct answers.
The content of the <code>&lt;question&gt;</code> element is the text of the question,
the answers and optional explanations.
</li>
<li>
The <code>&lt;answer&gt;</code> tag has a single argument "correct" indicating whether this is a
correct or wrong answer. Its contents consists of the answer and optional explanations.
</li>
<li>
The <code>&lt;explain&gt;</code> element inside an answer contains an explanation of why the
answer is right or wrong.
</li>
<li>
The <code>&lt;result&gt;</code> element presents the outcome of the test. (When the test is presented
this part is hidden and when the test has been performed only this part is shown and the test is hidden.)
In our example we see that the contents of elements, in this case the result, can contain arbitrary
XHTML and GALE tags and can even contain adaptive content.
</li>
</ul>
The example test is shown below. The action has been removed though.
<br />
Please note that as this test cannot be repeated you will only see the test upon your first visit to this page.
</p>
<p>
<gale:test 
    title="Test for the Introduction"
    action=""
    expr="${#visited}&lt;2" 
    ask="2"
    alt="[You are not allowed to repeat this test.]" 
    verbose="true">
  <gale:question 
      answers="2" 
      right="1">
    True or False: 
    According to the definition given in this course, this course text is a hypertext. 
    <gale:answer correct="true">
      False
      <gale:explain>
        The course text is indeed not a hypertext but a hyperdocument, because 
        a hypertext is the document plus the software, not the document alone.
      </gale:explain>
    </gale:answer>
    <gale:answer correct="false">
      True
      <gale:explain>
        The course text is a hyperdocument, not a hypertext, because a 
        hypertext is the document plus the software, not the document alone.
      </gale:explain>
    </gale:answer>
  </gale:question>
  <gale:question 
      answers="4" 
      right="1"> 
    What makes it difficult to offer a search facility for this course text? 
    <gale:answer correct="true"> 
      The course text is adaptive. 
      <gale:explain>
        Indeed, because the course text is adaptive ... 
      </gale:explain>
    </gale:answer>
    <gale:answer correct="false"> 
      The course is only available after a login procedure. 
      <gale:explain> 
        The login procedure may prevent a search engine ...
        So the adaptive aspect of the course text was the correct answer. 
      </gale:explain>
    </gale:answer>
    <gale:answer correct="false"> 
      Some information is hidden in images. 
      <gale:explain> 
        In general it is a problem that information may only be available in images. However, … 
      </gale:explain>
    </gale:answer>
    <gale:answer correct="false">
      The pages are not available as a whole, but only accessible through links. 
      <gale:explain> 
        By following links to retrieve all the pages one by one ... 
      </gale:explain>
    </gale:answer>
  </gale:question>
  <gale:result> 
    Your score was <gale:variable expr="${#knowledge}.intValue()" />. 
    <br />
    <gale:if expr="${#knowledge}&lt;100">
      <gale:then>
        <br />
        <br />
        You are not allowed to repeat this test, but you can continue with another topic from the menu. 
      </gale:then>
      <gale:else> 
        You can now continue with another topic from the menu. 
      </gale:else>
    </gale:if>
  </gale:result>
</gale:test>
</p>
</body>
</html>
