<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>GALE: The GRAPPLE Adaptive Learning Environment</h1>

<p>
GALE is the Adaptive Learning Environment of GRAPPLE. It can be used stand-alone or in combination with other GRAPPLE components. This tutorial mainly describes the large number of features (and interfaces) used by authors and designers
in order to configure the adaptation and presentation to their own desires.
</p>
<p>
We have a short <gale:a href="gale_intro">gentle introduction</gale:a> to introduce the possibilities of
an <em>adaptive learning environment</em>. If you are mainly wondering what an adaptive learning environment
can do for you, and less interested in the technical details of how things really work, this may be all you need.
</p>
<p>
In order to understand GALE we have an 
<gale:a href="gale_architecture">architecture</gale:a> overview of GALE, showing the components and how they interact throughout the process of handling a request for a concept.
We give a description of the main <gale:a href="gale_structures">conceptual structures</gale:a> ns GALE, namely the <gale:a href="gale_domainmodel">domain model</gale:a>, the <gale:a href="gale_adaptationmodel">adaptation model</gale:a> and the <gale:a href="gale_usermodel"><gale:object name="glossary_um" /></gale:a>.
</p>
<p>
The process of <gale:a href="gale_adaptation">adaptation</gale:a> is described in detail. GALE supports <em>content adaptation</em>, <em>link adaptation</em> and <em>presenation adaptation</em>. These three adaptation methods are spread over three functional parts, one for <gale:a href="gale_locatingresources">locating resources</gale:a> (given a concept as reference), one for <gale:a href="gale_adaptingresources">adapting the content of resources</gale:a> (including the links within that content), and <gale:a href="gale_adaptingpresentation">adapting the presentation</gale:a> using layout and generated views on the link structure.
</p>
<p>
Most aspects of adaptation in GALE depend on the evaluation of <em>expressions</em> and the execution of <em>statements</em> over the GALE <gale:a href="gale_usermodel"><gale:object name="glossary_um" /></gale:a>. We explain this <gale:a href="gale_code">GALE Code</gale:a> in detail, including how this code is used by expert authors to write code for <gale:a href="gat_crt"><gale:object name="glossary_prt" />s</gale:a>.
</p>
<p>
This tutorial has an <gale:a href="gale_advanced">advanced</gale:a> section describing the internal communication between GALE components, the communication with other GRAPPLE components and the many ways in which GALE can be extended with new functionality. Most readers can safely skip the advanced section.
</p>
<p>
All the information about GALE in this tutorial is taken from the
<a href="http://grapple-project.org/deliverables">GRAPPLE Deliverable 1.3c</a>.
</p>
<p>
When you have studied the different GALE-related topics you should take
this <gale:a href="gale_test">Quiz about GALE</gale:a>.
Please note that you can take this test only once.
</p>

</body>
</html>
