<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>The <gale:object name="glossary_gale" /> AdaptLinkModule (&lt;a&gt; tag)</h1>

<p>
Link adaptation is the most common form of adaptation in adaptive learning environments.
GALE supports two forms of link adaptation: <em>adaptive link annotation</em> and
<em>adaptive link hiding</em>. Both are in fact realized using the same technique:
link hiding is achieved by annotating the link in such a way that it becomes invisible
(actually, indistinguishable from plain text).
</p>
<p>
Link adaptation can be done using the <code>&lt;a&gt;</code> and the <code>&lt;adapt-link&gt;</code>
tags. There are two attributes that are meaningful to GALE: the <code>href</code> attribute
defines the link destination and the <code>exec</code> defines optional additional
<gale:a href="gale_code">GALE code</gale:a> to be executed when the link is clicked.
Below are three examples of their use:
<ul>
<li>
<code>&lt;gale:a href="welcome"&gt;...&lt;/gale:a&gt;</code><br />
This defines an adaptive link to a (relative) concept called "welcome".
</li>
<li>
<code>&lt;gale:a href="tour" exec="#{tour#start,true};"&gt;...&lt;/gale:a&gt;</code><br />
This defines an adaptive link to a (relative) concept called "tour" and when the link is clicked
the "start" <gale:object name="glossary_um" /> attribute of the concept "tour" is set to "true".
</li>
<li>
<code>&lt;a href="welcome"&gt;&lt;gale:adapt-link exec="#{#visit-tutorial,true};"/&gt;…&lt;/a&gt;</code><br />
The <code>&lt;gale:adapt-link&gt;</code> tag adds the <code>exec</code> code to its parent
<code>&lt;a&gt;</code> tag which can be in any namespace. 
</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>
The actual adaptation to the links is defined through attributes of the concept
<code>gale://gale.tue.nl/config</code>. We explain the details in the section on
<gale:a href="gale_adaptingpresentation">adapting the presentation</gale:a> because in fact
all that happens is that the presentation of the link anchor changes.
The adaptation process consists of two steps:
<ol>
<li>
First the UM state is used to determine the <em>class</em> of the link. This is done using
the value of <code>gale://gale.tue.nl/config/link#classexpr</code> or by the value
of the <code>#link.classepr</code> attribute of the current concept.
The default expression is:
<pre>
(${#suitability}?(${#visited}>0?\"neutral\":\"good\"):\"bad\")
</pre>
For suitable links it means that the class is "good" for unvisited and "neutral" for visited links.
An unsuitable link gets the class "bad".
</li>
<li>
The class is used in combination with a CSS file to produce a link presentation.
The name of the CSS file is stored in <code>gale://gale.tue.nl/config/presentation#css</code>
and can be overridden by the <code>#layout.css</code> attribute of the current concept.
The default CSS file is <code>${home}/gale.css</code>. (The expression <code>${home}</code>
results in the top level directory of GALE.)
The default CSS defines that links are not underlined and it presents "good" links in blue,
"neutral" links in purple and "bad" links in black,
a schema that results in a combination of <em>link annotation</em> (for suitable links)
and <em>link hiding</em> (for unsuitable links).
</li>
</ol>
</p>
<p>
In this tutorial you also see colored balls on the left, in the accordion menu.
The Spring configuration file "galeconfig.xml" contains the following default definition
of the use of these icons:
<pre>
  &lt;bean class="nl.tue.gale.ae.config.LinkConfig"&gt;
    &lt;property name="iconList"&gt;
      &lt;list&gt;
        &lt;value&gt;("static-tree-view".equals(gale.currentView())?
            (${#suitability}?(${#visited}&gt;0?"pre:gale:/images/WhiteBall.gif":
              "pre:gale:/images/GreenBall.gif"):"pre:gale:/images/RedBall.gif"):null)
        &lt;/value&gt;
      &lt;/list&gt;
    &lt;/property&gt;
  &lt;/bean&gt;
</pre>
The configuration says that icons are only used in the "static-tree-view" (the technical name
for the accordion menu) and it says that suitable links are prepended with a green ball when
unvisited and a white ball when visited and unsuitable links are prepended with a red ball.
<br />
Like with "classexpr" the iconList can be changed by changing
<code>gale://gale.tue.nl/config/link#iconList</code> or by means of the <code>#link.iconlist</code>
attribute of the concept.
</p>
</body>
</html>
