<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>The GALE IfModule (&lt;if&gt; tag)</h1>

<p>
A fragment can be included in the source (XML or XHTML) text of a resource (page),
and only conditionally presented to the user. This can be done using the <code>&lt;gale:if&gt;</code>,
<code>&lt;gale:then&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;gale:else&gt;</code> tags with a
<gale:a href="gale_code">GALE expression</gale:a>
(added to the <code>&lt;gale:if&gt;</code> tag) to make the decision on the inclusion.
This construct is simple and most useful for conditional inclusions that occur in a single instance.
An example:
<pre>
&lt;gale:if expr="${#suitability}"&gt;  &lt;gale:then&gt;    This concept is suitable :)   &lt;/gale:then&gt;  &lt;gale:else&gt;    This concept is unsuitable!  &lt;/gale:else&gt;&lt;/gale:if&gt;
</pre>
The example expression evaluates the "suitability" of the current concept and then replaces the entire
if-then-else DOM subtree by the contents of the "then" or the "else" part.
(Here that is just a text fragment but it can also be a large part of the document with many tags inside.
In any case the "then" and "else" parts must be valid XML fragments.)
</p>
<p>
This tutorial contains <code>&lt;if&gt;</code> tags in a number of places,
typically to include a small explanation of a topic you have not yet studied.
Such conditionally included fragments typically depend either on the number of visits
to a concept or on the knowledge of a concept.
</p>
</body>
</html>
