<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h2>The <gale:object name="glossary_gale" /> PluginModule (&lt;plugin&gt; tag)</h2>

<p>
The <code>&lt;test&gt;</code> is a special-purpose tag used to include a link to a special
function in a page. The header of each page of the tutorial contains:
<pre>
  &lt;gale:plugin&gt;    &lt;gale:name&gt;logout&lt;/gale:name&gt;    &lt;gale:linkdescription&gt;Logout    &lt;/gale:linkdescription&gt;  &lt;/gale:plugin&gt;
</pre>
This generates a link that looks like:
<gale:plugin>  <gale:name>logout</gale:name>  <gale:linkdescription>Logout  </gale:linkdescription></gale:plugin>
and that logs you out when you click on the link.
(We do not suggest that you try this now.)
</p>
<p>
When a plugin needs additional parameters they can be specified using the "param" subelement.
An example:
<pre>
&lt;gale:plugin&gt;  &lt;gale:name&gt;export&lt;/gale:name&gt;  &lt;gale:linkdescription&gt;Export concept (hierarchy)  &lt;/gale:linkdescription&gt;  &lt;gale:param name="root"    value="gale://gale.tue.nl/cam/GRAPPLE"/&gt;&lt;/gale:plugin&gt;
</pre>
This results in the following link:
<gale:plugin>  <gale:name>export</gale:name>  <gale:linkdescription>Export concept (hierarchy)  </gale:linkdescription>  <gale:param name="root"    value="gale://gale.tue.nl/cam/GRAPPLE"/></gale:plugin>.
When you click on this link GALE produces a textual representation of the GALE
<gale:object name="glossary_dm" /> for the named concept and all other concepts starting with this name.
In practice this would export the DM for this entire GRAPPLE tutorial. The format is named "GDOM" for
GALE Domain Model.
</p>
<p>
In the <gale:a href="gale_advanced">advanced GALE topics</gale:a> we explain how to create new plugins.
Here we describe the standard plugins that are included in the GRAPPLE (GALE) distribution:
<dl>
<dt>LogoutPlugin (logout)</dt>
<dd>
This plugin logs you out. It generates an HTML page that displays a message indicating that you
have been logged out. Note that this only works in stand-alone mode. If you are logged in using
<a href="http://shibboleth.internet2.edu/">Shibboleth</a> (the IdPLoginManager) the logout plugin
will log you out of GALE
but you remain logged in on Shibboleth because Shibboleth has no logout mechanism. (You are logged out
of Shibboleth when you exit the browser.)
</dd>
<dt>FormPlugin (form)</dt>
<dd>
This plugin allows for <gale:a href="gale_code">GALE code</gale:a> execution based on information
entered in an HTML form.
The plugin expects the code that should be executed in an HTTP parameter.
The code can use the form parameters in the regular way (i.e.
by calling <code>gale.req().getParameter(...)</code>).
</dd>
<dt>ExportPlugin (export)</dt>
<dd>
As shown above, this exports part of the DM as a GDOM file that is sent as content to the browser.
This plugin uses an additional parameter called 'root' to select part of the domain model.
All concepts that start with the value of this parameter are included.
</dd>
<dt>PasswordPlugin (password)</dt>
<dd>
This plugin displays a password change form that allows the user to change his/her password.
When using Shibboleth this plugin has no effect.
</dd>
<dt>UpdatePlugin (update)</dt>
<dd>
Allows the direct import of a .cam file. The parameter 'cam' is used as a URL to locate the .cam file.
A .cam file is a <gale:object name="glossary_cam" /> saved using the "export" functionality of
<gale:object name="glossary_gat" />.
</dd>
<dt>MCPlugin</dt>
<dd>
This plugin is used by multiple choice tests to produce an evaluation report (score).
There is no name to call this plugin directly from within a page using the <code>&lt;plugin&gt;</code> tag.
</dd>
<dt>ExecPlugin (exec)</dt>
<dd>
This plugin is used by GALE adaptive links to execute code upon following a link.
There is no name to call this plugin directly from within a page using the <code>&lt;plugin&gt;</code> tag.
</dd>
<dt>AjaxPlugin (ajax)</dt>
<dd>
This plugin is used by the ajax processor to indicate subsequent document retrieval.
It returns a new document only if something has changed.
</dd></dl>
</p>
</body>
</html>
