<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>Building (Compiling) AHA!</h2>

<p>The AHA! distribution contains the <i>source</i> of AHA!, not the
<i>binaries</i>. Since the <gale:a href="environment">software
environment</gale:a> that is needed to run AHA! includes the Java SDK it includes
everything you need in order to build the AHA! binaries. Being able to
run the build script is a good check that your Java environment is set
up correctly.</p>
<ul>
	<li>Windows users need to open a command window (also known as a
	"DOS box"). You change directory to the "build" directory (subdirectory
	of the directory you placed the AHA! distribution in). There is a batch
	command "bw" (file bw.bat) that compiles and installs everything. (It
	does not create any files outside the AHA! distribution directory.)</li>
	<li>Linux users need to open a shell window. You also change
	directory to the "build" directory (subdirectory of the directory you
	placed the AHA! distribution in). There is shell script "bl" that
	compiles and installs everything. (It does not create any files outside
	the AHA! distribution directory.)</li>
</ul>
<p>It is not possible for us to foresee all the possible problems
you might have in compiling AHA!, but if your Java environment is
installed properly there should not be any fatal compiler errors, and
the build script should result in the creation of an aha.jar file that
contains all the server-side code. Any errors or problems you might have
are most likely a matter of finding the correct libraries in the correct
place.</p>
<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
