<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>The Concept Editor</h2>

<p>The Concept Editor (sometimes called "generatelisteditor" for
historical reasons) is an authoring tool for defining concepts and <gale:object
	name="adaptationrule" /> <gale:a href="rules">rules</gale:a>.
We briefly describe the use of the Concept Editor here, using a series
of screen dumps to guide you through the process. We assume that you are
already familiar with the <gale:a href="graphauthor">Graph Author</gale:a>
which is easier to use and intended for less technical authors.</p>
<ul>
	<li>When you start the Concept Editor it asks for a login and
	password. <gale:if expr="${graphauthor#knowledge} &gt; 0">
		<gale:block>
	As with the graph author you are not required to provide authorization
	when the concept editor is started from the <gale:a href="amt">application management tool</gale:a> (AMT). </gale:block>
	</gale:if></li>
	<li>After logging in the <a href="../images/concepteditor.gif"
		target="_blank">main Concept Editor window</a> appears. Through
	the "File" menu you can create a new application, open an existing one
	and save it.</li>
	<li>Unlike with the Graph Author the Concept Editor shows concepts
	with their full name which includes the application name. The Graph
	Author hides the application name, but does generate it when you save
	the application.</li>
	<li>The Concept Editor shows a complete list of concepts. Each
	concept can be "opened up" to reveal its general properties, its
	hierarchy information (that can be edited) and its attributes. The <a
		href="../images/conceptlist.gif" target="_blank">list of
	concepts with attributes</a> resembles a windows explorer view. A <gale:a
		href="templates">template</gale:a> determines which attributes are
	created automatically for every new concept.</li>
	<li>When selecting a concept the Concept Editor shows information
	about the concept, including the <em>name</em>, <em>resource</em>, <em>description</em>,
	<em>concept type</em> and <em>title</em>. For the <a
		href="../images/welcomeconcept.gif" target="_blank">welcome
	concept</a> from this tutorial we have a screendump of what would be shown.
	Whereas the <gale:a href="graphauthor">Graph Author</gale:a> shows
	the concept list as a hierarchy the Concept Editor shows the explicit
	information about the <em>hierarchy</em> of concepts, and allows the
	author to change this information.</li>
	<li>One can select an attribute (or create one) and then edit the
	<gale:object name="adaptationrule" /> <gale:a href="rules">rules</gale:a>
	associated with that attribute. The <a
		href="../images/accessattribute.gif" target="_blank">access
	attribute screendump</a> shows the following information (and more):
	<ul>
		<li><b>Name</b>: The name of the attribute. This is used as the
		identifier of the attribute and used as such by the system.</li>
		<li><b>Description</b>: A description of what the attribute is
		used for. This is not used by AHA! in any way.</li>
		<li><b>Default</b>: A default or initial value for the attribute
		(in the <gale:a href="usermodel">user model</gale:a>).</li>
		<li><b>Type</b>: Each attribute is of type "int", "string" or
		"bool".</li>
		<li><b>Changeable</b>: This flag indicates whether the end-user
		is allowed to change the value of the attribute (through a form) or
		not.</li>
		<li><b>Persistent</b>: This flag indicates whether the attribute
		value is used during the rule execution for one event (page access)
		only, or whether the value is retained, like for "knowledge" for
		instance. When an attribute is not persistent, the value is reset to
		the default value each time the rule engine starts.</li>
		<li><b>System</b>: This flag indicates whether the attribute has
		a special meaning to the AHA! system. The <em>access</em> attribute
		for instance has the special meaning that it temporarily becomes true
		when the page is accessed. (For system attributes the name,
		description and default cannot be changed.)</li>
		<li><b>Generate list item</b>: Each line in this list contains
		the condition of an <gale:object name="adaptationrule" /> <gale:a
			href="rules">rule</gale:a>. You can select a condition and then edit
		the rule.</li>
	</ul>
	</li>
	<li>The <a href="../images/rulescreendump.gif" target="_blank">adaptation
	rule form</a> shows that for a rule the condition can be edited, the action
	to be performed if the condition is true and the optional action if the
	condition is false. Through the "Propagating" flag you can indicate
	that changes made to the user model by this rule may trigger other
	rules.</li>
</ul>
<p>Note that most authors will never need to use the Concept Editor.
The entire concept and rule structure for this tutorial was created
using only the Graph Author.</p>

<p><b>Warning:</b>: If you make changes to the concepts using the
Concept Editor and later use the Graph Author (again) to work on the
same application, the Graph Author will not read the output from the
Concept Editor and saving changes in the Graph Author will overwrite any
changes you made using the Concept Editor.</p>
<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
