<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>Contributing to the AHA! Project</h2>

<p>By using AHA! you are already contributing to the AHA! project,
for which we are grateful. However, there is more you can do:</p>

<ul>
	<li>When you decide to create an application based on AHA!, please
	let us know. We would like not just to know who is using AHA!, but also
	which types of applications are created using it.</li>
	<li>When you use AHA! and publish about your work, please
	acknowledge the use of AHA! in your publications in order to spread the
	word that this free adaptive framework is available for everyone.</li>
	<li>If you have difficulties realizing the application you want
	using AHA!, please let us know about the features you think would make
	the realization of your application easier. We can always use good
	ideas.</li>
	<li>Although AHA! comes ready to be used it includes the source
	code for all the parts developed by the AHA! team. You are free to
	change AHA! to suit your needs. But please let us know, and contribute
	your developments back to the AHA! team, so that we can continue to
	extend and improve AHA!.</li>
	<li>If you wish to contribute by spending some time at the AHA!
	site in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, please let us know. We can
	accomodate visitors (interns, masters students, sabbaticals), and offer
	affordable temporary housing. In general however, we cannot offer
	remuneration for contributions, except when we have research and
	development grants. AHA! is available for free to everyone and
	available in Open Source and we want to keep it that way.</li>
</ul>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
