<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>Advanced Topics for System Designers and Server Managers</h2>

<p>Authoring for AHA! can be done by editing concept relationships
through the <gale:a href="graphauthor">graph author</gale:a>. When the
graph author seems too restricted you can choose to edit the <gale:a
	href="concepts">concept structure</gale:a> and <gale:a href="rules">event-condition-action rules</gale:a>
through the <gale:a href="concepteditor">concept
editor</gale:a> or to edit the concepts and rules directly in the corresponding
XML file. However, the functionality of the graph author can be
stretched by <gale:a href="templates">creating new
templates</gale:a> for concept relationship types and/or changing existing ones.
</p>

<p>Another potential advanced aspect is the performance. When the
performance of an AHA! server is too low there are several ways to try
to improve it by changing the <gale:a href="ahaconfig">AHA!
configuration</gale:a>:</p>
<ul>
	<li>When using XML files instead of the mySQL database performance
	can be increased by moving the directory tree with the files to a
	separate disk (through the XMLROOT parameter). Note that moving the
	files to a different file system on the same disk does not help.</li>
	<li>When using mySQL one can move the database to a different
	machine than the one running the AHA! server, and change the
	"mysqlhost" parameter to refer to that machine.</li>
</ul>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
