<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>AHA! Supporting Software Environment</h2>

<p>AHA! consists of Java Servlets. While it may be possible to make
AHA! work with any environment that supports Java Servlets, we recommend
the environment described here. We only describe the server-side
requirements. There are no client-side requirements other than a fully
functional operating system and WWW browser.</p>

<h3>Operating System</h3>

<p>In theory any operating system can be used if it supports a Java
2 environment. The AHA! team has (successfully) tested AHA! on different
versions of Microsoft Windows (up to Windows XP) as well as on Linux
(Redhat versions 7 and 8 and Fedora core 4, 5 and 6).</p>

<h3>Java Environment</h3>

<p>AHA! requires the use of Sun's Java 2 environment (J2SE). It
works with the Java SDK versions 1.4 and newer. (Older versions do not
work, and alternatives like Kaffe do not work either.) Successive
releases of the Java SDK have different new features (new classes and/or
methods), and deprecate and abandon previously existing features. This
may cause problems with newer Java SDK versions. We will include support
for newer Java SDK versions in newer AHA! versions. The Java SDK can be
downloaded from <a href="http://java.sun.com/j2se/downloads.html"
	target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/j2se/downloads.html</a>. Note that
you must install the SDK not just the JRE (which is the runtime
environment only). <gale:a href="compile">Compiling
AHA!</gale:a> is part of the installation procedure and thus requires the SDK.</p>

<h3>Web Server</h3>

<p>AHA! needs a Webserver that can call Java Servlets. While several
such Webservers exist they are all configured in different ways. We
recommend the use of the <a href="http://tomcat.apache.org/"
	target="_blank">Tomcat</a> webserver. Although officially obsolete
using Sun's JWSDP still makes perfect sense because it offers an easy
way to configure Tomcat. We have successfully tested AHA! with versions
1.5 and 2.0 of JWSDP. When installing JWSDP you need to download and
install an adapted TomCat server separately. JWSDP can be downloaded
from <a
	href="http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html"
	target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/webservices/downloads/webservicespack.html</a>.
The adapted TomCat server can be downloaded from <a
	href="http://java.sun.com/webservices/containers/tomcat_for_JWSDP_1_5.html"
	target="_blank">http://java.sun.com/webservices/containers/tomcat_for_JWSDP_1_5.html</a>.
(AHA! itself does not use any JWSDP features. It runs on a "plain"
Tomcat, but the version that comes with JWSDP makes the configuration
easier.)</p>

<h3>Database System</h3>

<p>The use of a database with AHA! is <em>optional</em>. It does not
seem to help the performance, but it does allow you to query the
database with user profile information. Currently AHA! only works with
the Open Source <a href="http://www.mysql.org/" target="_blank">mySQL</a>
database system, that can be downloaded from <a
	href="http://www.mysql.org" target="_blank">www.mysql.org</a>. AHA!
will work without problems without installing mySQL (except that the
options for using mySQL will not work). MySQL support works with
Microsoft Windows as well as Linux. (We do not test it frequently
though.) Note that in order for AHA! to work with mySQL you need to
create the appropriate mySQL user, (which you can choose through the <gale:a
	href="firstconfig">AHA! configuration tool</gale:a> but which is not
created on the mySQL server through the AHA! configuration tool).</p>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
