<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>

<h2>AHA! Installation Instructions</h2>

<p>This page is only interesting for people who wish to install the
<em>server side</em> part of AHA!. If you are an end-user or author
using an existing AHA! server there is nothing you need to install on
your (client) side, except for a recent WWW browser such as Mozilla
Firefox or Internet Explorer configured so that it allows AHA! to store
cookies on the client and allows web-pages to control link colors.</p>

<p>Installing AHA! involves three steps:</p>
<ol>
	<li>You first need to have the right <gale:a href="environment">software environment</gale:a>,
	including an appropriate version of Windows or Linux, and Sun's Java
	SDK. You need a fully functional Tomcat webserver (running in that Java
	environment), and optionally also the mySQL database system. Before
	configuring Tomcat and AHA! <b>you must <gale:a href="compile">build</gale:a>
	(or compile) AHA!</b>.</li>
	<li>When TomCat (and mySQL) are running you need to create and
	configure an <gale:a href="ahacontext">AHA! context</gale:a> so that
	the TomCat server knows where to find the AHA! servlets and documents.</li>
	<li>The TomCat server needs to be restarted in order to be able to
	<gale:a href="firstconfig">configure AHA!</gale:a>. (Execute
	shutdown.sh and startup.sh on Linux or shutdown.bat and startup.bat on
	Windows.) When AHA! is running you can try to access <a
		href="/aha/tutorial/">/aha/tutorial/</a> and try reading the tutorial
	from your own server.</li>
</ol>

<p>After installing and using AHA! it is possible to change the
configuration again by going back to the <a href="/aha/Config"
	target="_blank">/aha/Config</a> page and logging in as the AHA!
manager. This page lets you perform the following four actions:</p>
<ul>
	<li>The "Configure Database" link leads to a form that lets you
	choose between XML and mySQL for storing the concept information and
	the user profiles. When changing this setting AHA! will offer the
	possibility to convert the data to the new format. When switching to
	mySQL for the first time you should check the box to create the
	database. For experimental and stand-alone AHA! installations it is
	easiest to choose XML, whereas for multi-user servers it is probably
	better to choose mySQL. Our experience shows that this does not make
	the system faster, but it does allow querying of the <gale:a
		href="usermodel">user model</gale:a> database. <br />
	<b>Warning:</b> When you change the database setting (switch from XML
	to mySQL or back, or change the database name) you have to restart the
	TomCat server before the settings will work.</li>
	<li>The "Manager Configuration" link leads to a form that lets you
	add or change AHA! managers. If you are studying the tutorial on your
	own installed AHA! server you should already have changed the default
	manager's password, but if you did not we must remind you that this is
	very important. Every AHA! installation has "aha" as the default
	manager, with an empty password. Everyone who knows about AHA! will use
	this combination as a first guess to try and break into an existing
	AHA! server. Note that creating a new manager does not remove the
	default one, so you should modify the existing "aha" manager, give it a
	password, and optionally change its name.</li>
	<li>The "Authors" link leads to a form that lets you add or change
	AHA! authors. The concept structure of an application can only be
	modified by its author(s). AHA! currently does not include content
	management for the document tree associated with an application.</li>
	<li>The "Convert concept list from internal format to XML file"
	link performs the translation of the concept information from the
	internal XML or mySQL format (whichever is active) to a single XML file
	or a set of XML files in the format used by the authoring tools. (A
	single AHA! server can contain several top-level hyperdocuments and
	each will be represented by a separate authoring XML file so that
	different authors can work simultaneously on their own hyperdocument.)

	</li>
	<li>The "Convert concept list from XML file to internal format"
	link commits changes made by authoring tools. It converts the XML
	file(s) created by the authoring tools to the internal format which is
	a set of XML files or the mySQL database depending on the chosen
	setting.</li>
</ul>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
