<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
<h2>What you need to know first:</h2>

<p>Welcome to the AHA! tutorial. In order to enjoy learning about
and using AHA!, please go over these instructions on how to deal with
differences between computing environments and browsers, so that you can
be certain you have the proper environment.</p>

<p><em>"Listen very carefully: I will say this only once!</em><br />
<small>(Quote from the TV show "Allo Allo".)</small></p>

<p>This tutorial is offered on-line, on the <a
	href="http://aha.win.tue.nl/">AHA! website</a> but is also included in
the AHA! distribution. When you installed the AHA! distribution on your
own system, going through the tutorial is a good way to check whether
the system is functioning properly. The tutorial is pre-installed in the
distribution. This tutorial will explain how to uninstall it should you
decide you no longer want it on your own server.</p>

<p>There are a number of things you should pay attention to when
installing AHA! and using it, either as an end-user or as an author:</p>
<ul>
	<li>AHA! is implemented entirely in Java, and works with the
	Java-based webserver Tomcat and with Java servlets. You need recent
	versions of Tomcat and of the Java SDK to make AHA! work. On the
	browser side you should use recent versions (of for instance Mozilla
	Firefox or Microsoft Internet Explorer) to ensure full support of
	(X)HTML and HTTP. If you experience problems with AHA! in combination
	with your browser, please make sure you access the AHA! server right
	after starting the browser (without visiting any other pages). Some
	browsers, especially Internet Explorer, sometimes do not work correctly
	with AHA! after their internal memory has become corrupted through
	visits to other Websites. There should be no problem when AHA! is the
	first site you visit.</li>
	<li>AHA! provides <em>content adaptation</em> by conditionally
	selecting pages, fragments or objects and through <em>link
	adaptation</em> by conditionally changing the color of link anchors and
	possibly adding icons. The adaptation is performed each time a page is
	requested from the server. AHA! tries to "convince" the browser to
	request a page from the server even when you navigate through the
	browsing history (using the <em>back</em> and <em>forward</em>
	buttons), but this is not guaranteed to work with all versions of all
	browsers. (At the time of writing this it does work with Firefox and
	Internet Explorer.) When a page is opened in a new browser window only
	the newly opened window shows adaptation. The other window will
	continue to show the previous page in its "old" state. Thus, as an
	author you should try to avoid situations where you really depend on
	adaptation when the end-user is navigating through the history or is
	opening new windows.</li>
	<li>The <em>link adaptation</em> is performed through the use of a
	<em>style sheet</em>. The browser must be configured to accept colors
	which the html page requests. With most browsers this is the default
	setting. In this tutorial you will see that links are sometimes <em>blue</em>
	and sometimes <em>purple</em>. These colors are determined by the style
	sheet, not by the browser's history mechanism. Links may also be <em>black</em>
	(actually <em>dark gray</em>) meaning that according to the adaptive
	application the user is not ready to follow them. You may also see <em>bright
	red</em> or <em>dark red</em> links; they point to pages that are not part
	of the tutorial.</li>
	<li>AHA! pages can (but need not) have a <em>header</em> and/or <em>footer</em>,
	showing a progress report and access to forms for changing the user
	profile, color preferences or password, or to log out. If this header
	does not show up when you expect it, it probably means that the page
	was not served through AHA! but straight through the web server. (As a
	result there is then no adaptation.)</li>
	<li>AHA! runs on any full and recent implementation of the Java 2
	platform. It is frequently tested on Microsoft Windows (currently XP)
	and Linux (mostly Fedora). Linux is the prefered platform, not just
	because it is Open Source like AHA! itself, but also because it is
	better at multitasking. Any "plain" PC (or even a laptop computer) will
	be adequate for a small AHA! server, resulting in sub-second response
	times.</li>
</ul>
<p>You can now go to the <gale:a href="welcome">main
starting page</gale:a> of this tutorial. (Alternatively you can just press
"reload", because this page will never be repeated.)</p>
<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
