<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml" type="text/aha">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
<h2>Using AHA! with standard XHTML</h2>
<p>Pages in standard XHTML start with:<br />
<tt>&lt;!DOCTYPE html SYSTEM
"../../AHAstandard/xhtml1-strict.dtd"&gt;</tt></p>
<p>When using AHA! with standard XHTML you must create pages that
contain a <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> and a <tt>&lt;body</tt> part. (In the
XHTML+AHA format you should <em>not</em> have a <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt>
and a <tt>&lt;body</tt> part as they are generated automatically by
AHA!.)</p>
<p>In the <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> part you can include a reference to
an external style sheet, like <tt>&lt;link rel="stylesheet"
type="text/css" "tutorial.css" /&gt;</tt>. In the style sheet you can for
instance define the <gale:a href="visibility">presentation
style of text fragments</gale:a>, depending on the <em>visibility</em> attribute
of a concept.</p>
<p>Another possible application of using standard XHTML is that
extensions other than the AHA! extension can be used. You can for
instance provide the following HTML tag:<br />
<tt>&lt;html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
xmlns:t="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:time"&gt;</tt><br />
and then in the <tt>&lt;head&gt;</tt> add the import command<br />
<tt>&lt;?IMPORT namespace="t" implementation="#default#time2"?&gt;</tt><br />
This then allows you to use the HTML+TIME extensions defined by
Microsoft, and closely related to the timing part of the <a
	href="http://www.w3.org/AudioVideo/">W3C SMIL</a> standard. Using these
timing extensions it becomes possible to create (adaptive) multimedia
applications in which video fragments can be played either upon mouse
clicks or triggered by a timer or an offset into other timed objects. It
is beyond the scope of this tutorial to explain the use of HTML+TIME.
Please note that when you use such extensions your application will no
longer be browser-independent. (HTML+TIME currently works with Internet
Explorer and with Realplayer.)</p>

<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
