<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<body>
<gale:object data="../header.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
<h1>AHA! Tutorial</h1>

<p>Welcome <gale:if expr="${installation#knowledge}&gt;0">
	<gale:block>back</gale:block>
</gale:if> to the AHA! Tutorial. This adaptive document describes how to use
version 3.0 of AHA!, the Adaptive Hypermedia Architecture. This tutorial
consists of the following main parts:</p>
<ul>
	<li><gale:a href="installation">Installation
	instructions</gale:a>. This section describes how to install AHA! on a Windows
	or Linux system, and how to configure it for use with or without the
	mySQL database. <gale:if expr="${installation#knowledge}==0">
		<gale:block>
You are advised to study this part first in order to set up your
own local server on which you can experiment with AHA!.
After this step you can opt to either first study AHA! in detail,
or to jump right into the <gale:a href="example">example</gale:a>
that gives you hand-on experience with the creation of an AHA! application.
</gale:block>
	</gale:if></li>
	<li>Information for and about <gale:a href="enduser">end-users</gale:a>.
	This section describes how the AHA! system uses the user's browsing
	behavior to build and maintain a user model, and how it decides how to
	adapt the presentation to each individual user.</li>
	<li>Information <gale:a href="authoring">for
	authors</gale:a>, including how to create the conceptual structure of an
	adaptive application, and how to create <gale:object
		name="adaptationrule" /> rules using the different authoring
	tools that come with AHA!.</li>
	<li>Information for <gale:a href="advanced">system
	designers</gale:a> who need to support authors of an AHA! installation and who
	may wish to extend AHA!'s built-in functionality.</li>
	<li>Information on how <gale:a href="contribute">you
	can contribute</gale:a> to the AHA! project by sending us your additions, fixes
	and suggestions.</li>
	<li>A hands-on <gale:a href="example">example</gale:a> to aid you
	in creation of your first AHA! application</li>
</ul>
<gale:object data="../footer.xhtml">
	<p><b>Warning:</b> If you see this text it means you are not
	viewing the page through the AHA! system.</p>
</gale:object>
</body>
</html>
