<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<gale:if expr="${#done}"><gale:then>
<h1>GAT Quiz Result</h1>
<p>
Your test score was <gale:variable expr="${#knowledge}.intValue()" />.
</p>
</gale:then>
</gale:if>
<gale:test title="Quiz about the GRAPPLE Authoring Tool" total="5" action="#{#knowledge, value};#{#done, true};" expr="!${#done}" ask="5" alt="[You are not allowed to repeat this test.]" verbose="true">
<p>
This is a short test to verify your knowledge about authoring in GRAPPLE.
</p>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or false: When concepts in the <gale:object name="glossary_dm" /> have an "order" attribute
they will always be sorted according to this attribute when GALE presents them in a list.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
GALE has "views" like the accordion menu presented on the left in this tutorial.
These views may or may not consider the "order" attribute to sort the lists in the menu.
Lists appearing in pages are not sorted by GALE.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
This is not <em>always</em> true.
GALE has "views" like the accordion menu presented on the left in this tutorial.
These views may or may not consider the "order" attribute to sort the lists in the menu.
Lists appearing in pages are not sorted by GALE.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="4" right="3">
What are differences between <gale:object name="glossary_dm" /> and <gale:object name="glossary_cam" />? Check all that apply!
<gale:answer correct="true">
Relationships in DM are between single concepts and in the CAM between sets of concepts.
<gale:explain>
Indeed: the CAM uses sockets to connect sets of concepts but in DM the relationships are between
single concepts, which is more like in an ontology.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">
Relationships in the DM can be of any arbitrary type, but relationships in the CAM can only
be of a set of predefined types (presented in the left pane of the CAM tool).
<gale:explain>
In the CAM you can create relationships of arbitrary types just like in the DM tool.
But in the DM tool the relationships have no properties besides their name so adding them has been
made easy whereas to add a new type of relationship to a CAM you must first define that using
the <gale:object name="glossary_prt" /> tool, after which it will appear in the left pane of the
CAM tool and can be selected.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="true">
Relationships in the CAM may have pedagogical meaning but relationships in the DM should not
have pedagogical meaning.
<gale:explain>
This is true, but mark the use of "should" here: you can create a DM with relationships that have
pedagogical meaning but you should not as the DM should only describe the subject domain.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="true">
Relationships in a CAM can have more endpoints than in a DM.
<gale:explain>
Indeed: <gale:object name="glossary_prt" />s in a CAM can have one, two but also more and in fact
any (fixed) number of sockets. In a DM relations are all binary.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or false: In order for an <gale:object name="glossary_lms" /> and
<gale:object name="glossary_gale" /> to communicate knowledge values (through
<gale:object name="glossary_gumf" /> they must use the same <em>scale</em> for knowledge values.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
Using the UM mapping tool you can convert values between different rating schemes (scales).
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
Indeed, this is what the UM mapping tool is for.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or False: When using only the default <gale:object name="glossary_prt" />s you must use
the "G-Knowledge-Propagation" PRT to "propagate" knowledge from child to parent concepts.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
Indeed: for convenience the "G-Knowledge-Propagation-Parent" PRT has been created for this purpose,
enabling you to create all these propagations in a single PRT instance.
Therefore you should not use "G-Knowledge-Propagation" for this (which would require a PRT instance
for each instance of a parent relation in the DM). You can still use
"G-Knowledge-Propagation" for propagating knowledge between concepts that are not related through
a "parent" relationship.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
This may seem like a logical answer, but for convenience the "G-Knowledge-Propagate-Parent" PRT
does this propagation for all parent relations through a single PRT instance.
Therefore you should not use "G-Knowledge-Propagation" for this (which would require a PRT instance
for each instance of a parent relation in the DM). You can still use
"G-Knowledge-Propagation" for propagating knowledge between concepts that are not related through
a "parent" relationship.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or false: a binary <gale:object name="glossary_prt" /> (i.e. one with two sockets) is
always a "directed" PRT.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
The PRT and CAM tools are implemented in such a way that only binary PRTs where the sockets
are named "source" and "target" are considered "directed". PRTs with different socket names
(and PRTs with only 1 or with more than 2 sockets) are automatically undirected.
Note that the only implication of being "directed" or "undirected" is how the CAM tool draws the PRT.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
Indeed, The PRT and CAM tools are implemented in such a way that only binary PRTs where the sockets
are named "source" and "target" are considered "directed". PRTs with different socket names
(and PRTs with only 1 or with more than 2 sockets) are automatically undirected.
Note that the only implication of being "directed" or "undirected" is how the CAM tool draws the PRT.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:result>
Your score was <gale:variable expr="${#knowledge}.intValue()" />. 
</gale:result>
</gale:test>
</body>
</html>
