<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<gale:if expr="${#done}"><gale:then>
<h1>GUMF Test Result</h1>
<p>
Your test score was <gale:variable expr="${#knowledge}.intValue()" />.
</p>
</gale:then>
</gale:if>
<gale:test title="Quiz about the GRAPPLE User Modeling Framework" total="4" action="#{#knowledge, value};#{#done, true};" expr="!${#done}" ask="4" alt="[You are not allowed to repeat this test.]" verbose="true">

<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or False: End-Users log into <gale:object name="glossary_gumf" /> using their Shibboleth account.
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
This statement is indeed false, and in fact end-users do not log in on GUMF at all as only
client applications connect to GUMF, not users.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
GUMF is a back-end service used only by client applications to store and retrieve data on behalf
of users. End-users do not log in on GUMF at all (hence also not using Shibboleth).
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
<gale:object name="glossary_gumf" /> is a distributed <gale:object name="glossary_um" /> store.
But what about the UM data for a single user: Is this data stored on a single server or can it
also be distributed?
<gale:answer correct="false">Data of a user resides on a single server.
<gale:explain>
No, data about a user can not only be stored on a single server (dataspace) within GUMF but
GUMF can also use external data from social networks or other sources.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="true">Data of a single user can be distributed.
<gale:explain>
Indeed, data about a user can not only be stored on a single server (dataspace) within GUMF and
furthermore GUMF can also use external data from social networks or other sources.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or false: When you name a test "xyz" on an <gale:object name="glossary_lms" /> and you name
a concept "xyz" in a course on <gale:object name="glossary_gale" /> and declare in both systems
that the knowledge value should be stored in <gale:object name="glossary_gumf" /> the LMS and GALE
will "share" (see) the same value.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
This is (some would say unfortunately) not true because data in GUMF is addressed in a much
more elaborate way. Data from an LMS and from GALE will be in separate data spaces, but you can
map data from one to the other so that the LMS and GALE can see each other's values (after some conversion).
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
Indeed, this is (some would say unfortunately) not true because data in GUMF is addressed in a much
more elaborate way. Data from an LMS and from GALE will be in separate data spaces, but you can
map data from one to the other so that the LMS and GALE can see each other's values (after some conversion).
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
What is a GrappleStatement?
<gale:answer correct="true">An assertion about a user, like "John has interest in English" (but formulated
not in natural language but in a formalism). 
<gale:explain>
Correct: a GrappleStatement is only a "statement", an "assertion". It can be sent to GUMF but it
can also be returned by GUMF as an answer to a query.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">An assignment of a value for a property of a user, like an instruction
to <gale:object name="glossary_gumf" /> to store that triple (user, property, value) on the server.
<gale:explain>
This is not true: a GrappleStatement is only a "statement", an "assertion". It can be sent to GUMF but it
can also be returned by GUMF as an answer to a query. It is not an instruction for GUMF to do something.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:result>
Your score was <gale:variable expr="${#knowledge}.intValue()" />. 
</gale:result>
</gale:test>
</body>
</html>
