<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<gale:if expr="${#done}"><gale:then>
<h1>Pre-Test Result</h1>
<p>
Your test score was <gale:variable expr="${#knowledge}.intValue()" />.
</p>
</gale:then>
</gale:if>
<gale:test title="Pre-Test for the GRAPPLE Tutorial" total="5" action="#{#knowledge, value};#{#done, true};" expr="!${#done}" ask="5" alt="[You are not allowed to repeat this test.]" verbose="true">
<p>
This is a short test to verify your knowledge about adaptive <gale:object name="glossary_tel" />.
Your score for this test may influence some of the adaptation in the tutorial but is otherwise
not important. (Failing the test has no consequences for your ability to study this tutorial.)
</p>
<p>
<b>Note: </b> You have to take this test <b>now</b>. You cannot take the test later because once
you navigate away from this page further access to this test will be blocked!
</p>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or False: Adaptivity (i.e. automatic personalization) is a common feature in most modern
<gale:object name="glossary_lms" />.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
Indeed: some <gale:object name="glossary_lms" /> may offer personalization in the form of customization,
but that is not automatic and thus may qualify as "adaptability", not as "adaptivity".
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
Alas, some <gale:object name="glossary_lms" /> may offer personalization in the form of customization,
but that is not automatic and thus may qualify as "adaptability", not as "adaptivity".
In order to qualify as "adaptivity" the system must automatically adapt itself to the user,
based on observing the user's behavior.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or False: <em>prerequisite</em> relationships between concepts are used to create
learning sequences (or "paths").
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
Indeed: prerequisites merely indicate that some concepts should be studied before some other concepts
but this may not lead to strings/sequences of concepts that should be learned one after another. 
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
Sequencing or creating a series of concepts that should be learned one after the other is a much
more constraining form of "guidance" than the typical use of prerequisites. In GRAPPLE we aim at giving
learners a lot of freedom, not forcing them to follow a given sequence. Prerequisites are used to
indicate that some concepts need to be studied before some other, but this does not generate a sequence.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
Authoring for an <gale:object name="glossary_ale" /> is bound to be difficult because the author
needs to write (complex) adaptation rules. It is a task for people with some technical knowledge.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
You are right: it does not have to be difficult. In this tutorial we describe how adaptation
can be authored in a completely graphical way. No technical knowledge is required, and the complex
adaptation rules are generated automatically. 
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
Adaptation is based on complex adaptation rules. However, this does not mean that the author needs
to be able to write such rules. In GRAPPLE the authoring of the adaptation is done entirely through
simple graphical user-interfaces. No technical knowledge is required.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
True or False: when using an <gale:object name="glossary_lms" /> and an <gale:object name="glossary_ale" />
the students' grades for a course are determined completely automatically by the system.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
This is indeed a false assumption: an LMS offers manual grading and re-grading options to teachers.
It is possible to have grades determined completely when all tests are automated but this is by no
means the common approach.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
This is a false assumption and in fact "worry" by people unfamiliar with the technology:
an LMS offers manual grading and re-grading options to teachers.
It is possible to have grades determined completely when all tests are automated but this is by no
means the common approach.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:question answers="2" right="1">
An <gale:object name="glossary_ale" /> alleviates the need for face-to-face teaching.
<gale:answer correct="true">False
<gale:explain>
We won't claim that this is a positive or negative statement, but it is false in any case:
An <gale:object name="glossary_ale" /> offers an interesting alternative to textbooks,
but can certainly be used together with face-to-face teaching.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
<gale:answer correct="false">True
<gale:explain>
Some teachers feel threatened because they believe this statement to be true.
There is absolutely no need for this: an <gale:object name="glossary_ale" /> offers an interesting alternative to textbooks,
but can certainly be used together with face-to-face teaching.
</gale:explain>
</gale:answer>
</gale:question>
<gale:result>
Your score was <gale:variable expr="${#knowledge}.intValue()" />. 
</gale:result>
</gale:test>
</body>
</html>
