<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
  <title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>GRAPPLE Tutorial</h1>

<p>The GRAPPLE project aims at delivering to learners a Technology-Enhanced Learning (TEL)
environment that guides them through a life-long learning
experience, automatically adapting to personal preferences, prior knowledge,
skills and competences, learning goals and the personal or social context in
which the learning takes place. The same TEL environment can be used/accessed
at home, school, work or on the move (using mobile/handheld devices). GRAPPLE
includes authoring tools that enable educators to provide adaptive learning
material to the learners. Authoring includes creating the conceptual structure
of a subject domain, linking the concepts to resources (learning material),
defining pedagogical rules to guide learning processes, and creating the
pedagogical structure of a course. To ensure the wide adoption of adaptation in
TEL GRAPPLE works with Open Source and commercial Learning Management Systems (LMSs).
A distributed User Modeling Service architecture (GUMF) helps end-users
to stay in control of their user profile while at the same time allowing them
to use the profile to get personalized access to learning applications offered
through different LMSs by different organizations. </p>

<p>The main target group of this tutorial are <em>authors of adaptive courses</em>,
working in an academic or corporate setting, where learning is supported or facilitated through an LMS.
In this tutorial we describe the authoring of adaptive courses,
and focus on five parts of the GRAPPLE environment that are used for the authoring and delivery process:</p>
<ul>
  <li>The <gale:a href="LMS">LMS</gale:a> needs to be set up in such a way that courses are linked to their adaptive learning material, and that results of some of the tests and assignments are communicated to <gale:a href="GUMF">GUMF</gale:a>.</li>
  <li>The <gale:a href="GAT">GRAPPLE Authoring Tool</gale:a> (GAT) is used by teachers to create the conceptual and educational structure of courses and to link concepts to resources.</li>
  <li>The <gale:a href="GALE">GRAPPLE Adaptive Learning Environment</gale:a> (GALE) delivers adaptive learning material to the learner. It is a very generic and extensible adaptation engine that can also be used stand-alone (without other GRAPPLE components).</li>
  <li><gale:a href="GUMF">GRAPPLE User Model Framework</gale:a> (GUMF) is a common (distributed) storage space for user-related information. It can store information that is used by just one component but it is mostly used as a common store that enables an <gale:a href="LMS">LMS</gale:a> to exchange User Model (UM) information with <gale:a href="GALE">GALE</gale:a>.</li>
  <li>The <gale:a href="GEB">GRAPPLE Event Bus</gale:a> (GEB) makes all GRAPPLE components communicate with each other. GEB needs to be installed and configured and all components need to be told (configured) where to find GEB.</li>
</ul>
<gale:if expr="${grapple_infrastructure#knowledge}==0"><gale:then>
<p>
We advise you to first study the <gale:a href="grapple_infrastructure">overall architecture/infrastructure</gale:a>
of GRAPPLE before studying the role of the individual components.
</p>
</gale:then></gale:if>
<gale:if expr="${#visited}&lt;=1"><gale:then>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> Throughout this tutorial we use a large number of acronyms (such as LMS, GAT,
GUMF, GALE, GEB...). If you are unsure about their meaning you can mouse over the first
occurrence of the term on a page and the full name will appear as a tooltip.
We do assume that you are familiar with some Web Technology terms such as
HTML, HTTP, XML, XHTML, CSS, DOM, SOAP, URL, URI, SPARQL, SeRQL,
etc. and do not offer explanations or tooltips for these terms.
</p>
</gale:then></gale:if>
<gale:if expr="${pre-test#visited}==0"><gale:then>
<p>
Before you are starting to really study this tutorial you are invited to take a
<gale:a href="pre-test">pre-test</gale:a> to see what you know about adaptive learning.
The result of this test may influence adaptation further on.
You can take this test only once, and you cannot take the test any more after you studied any part of the tutorial.
</p>
</gale:then></gale:if>
</body>
</html>
